ruv. sur. 1. ιιι

dicir care3 the ward was afterwards reduced by their rillany ιο
such poverty, as to be obligedto prostituto himself for his support.

—Some texts have pupille—Populum . . premit: ‘presses on. Ι

and incommodes the passongers with histrum of attendants!

39. Ει hic . . . bibit: the construction is, et hie Manus exsul
damnatus inani judicio (caim quid, dyc.) tato ab oetam-Inoni:
‘vain' because, though inflicted on Marius, the iujured province
received no recompensa

41. At artaud: the eighth hour of tha natural day, or two
o’cloclr, P. M, which may be considered as an instance of great
luxury, the Romans not being in the habit ofaitting down to their
meals sooner than the ninth boun-Marius.- Murcus Parcus was
pro-consul of Africa, and being prosecuted by the province for

cruelty and extortion,.was convicted‚ lined, aud banished from

Italy. Yet retaining the greater partos his fonner spoils, he
lived in a wauton exile3 while the Africana returned home with

Ἴ the wretched consolation cs having defraycd their own expensas, ,

arrd seen the money, levied on their oppressor, omried to tha llo-
ttdttlnlttlhmtdtlrtdthttttdtt'tlut
cf the gods, and suffered condemnation in a court of justice, sud
he received no injury, but lived in the highest luxury.

42. Victi-ir: uictrix was a lew tenu, applied to those who
galhldilerlhliiud.. . . tuccmd: ‘the Venusinian lamp,’ that is, ‘the
pen of Horace bimself,’ wbo was born at Venusiuma city os
ΑΙ441411 aligulam: a metaphor from hunting wild uersus-sed . ..
Heroclem: sobrius understood ; ‘but why should 1 rather write
poetic fables on the labors of Hercules!

45. Diomedeas: subulos understood3 ‘the exploits of Di·
omede.' See Class. Diot—-Mugu'tum Labyrintha': i. e. the Mino,
millii sllifllm Politi. e. the story of Icarus. See Class. Dict—
lbbrumqueuo ntem, i. e. the story of heduus. See Closs. Drot

47. Leno . . . bonu: ‘the husband, who turns pander, receives

the goods of the adulterer,’ asthe price of his wise’s prostitution.-- ·

Si . . . acori .· Domitian made a law which prohibited the use of
litters and the right of inheritanoe to adalberone wives. This was
evaded by making their busbauds pandera to their lewdness, aud
thus causing the agacics to be given to them.

48. S'ecturc lacunar.- as inobservant ol bia wile’a infamy.

49. octus . . . uaso: a cup was also set before the husband
(another device), which he pretended to ,have drnnk, and then
nodded and snored es if in adrunken sleep- vigilanti .· the poet
uses tbe epithet agitanti, bere, very humorously, to denote that
though tbe man aeemed to be fast asleep by his coming, yet lua
nose seemed to bo awalre by the noise it made.

⁵0. eram. . . malco: another cauae os indignation. lt ts un-

 

